## Related Work
{:#related-work}

Write me.
{:.todo}

### Link Traversal Query Processing

Write me.
{:.todo}

Relevant paragraph from Olaf's databankenspectrum paper:
> We notice that live-exploration-based query execution
is similar to focused crawling as studied in the context of search engines for the WWW [6,2]. However, in focused crawling a discovered URI qualifies for lookup because of a high relevance for a specific topic; in live-exploration-based query execution, the relevance is more closely related to the task of answering the query at hand. Furthermore, the pur- pose of retrieving Web content is slightly different in both cases: Focused crawling, or Web crawling in general, is a pre-runtime (or background) process during which a system populates a search index or a local database; then, the run- time component of such a system provides query access to the populated data structure. Live exploration approaches, in contrast, retrieve data to answer a particular query; in these approaches, link-traversal-based data retrieval is an essen- tial part of the query execution process itself. Nonetheless, implementation techniques used for focused crawling, such as context graphs [8], might be applied in a live exploration approach for Linked Data query execution.

### Link Traversal Benchmarks

Aside from the lack of reusable link traversal query engines,
there is also a lack of easily reusable benchmarks for evaluation the performance of link traversal query engines.
According to a recent [survey of Linked Data querying approaches](cite:cites linkeddatamanagement),
*"there are no well-defined and well-understood benchmarks to test Linked Data query processing systems"*.
Nevertheless, there has been work that provide a foundation onto which benchmarks may be built.

[QWalk](cite:cites linktraversaldiverse) is a methodology for building a large set of queries based on random walks through an existing dataset.
The output of this methodology is a set of Basic Graph Patterns that crosses through various documents through dereferenceable links.
QWalk has been designed to be executed on the actual Web, to evaluate uncontrolled environments.
Due this this, most of the queries generated by the authors make use of links that have gone dead by now,
which makes these queries unsuitable for a reliable and reusable benchmark.
Furthermore, the authors propose making use of queries from existing benchmarks
such as [FedBench](cite:cites fedbench) and [DBpedia SPARQL Benchmark](cite:cites dbpediasparqlbenchmark) for execution over the actual Web.
Unfortunately, these also lead to inconsistent and non-reproducible experimental results,
which makes them unsuitable for reliable link traversal benchmarking.
In contrast, the benchmark we propose makes use of a closed environment that is in full control of the experimenter.

[WODSim](cite:cites walkingwithoutamap) is an tool that accepts an RDF dataset as input,
and is able to simulate a Web of Linked Data documents.
For each triple in the dataset, it can either place the triple inside the Linked Data document(s)
identified by the triple's subject, object, or both.
While this tool is beneficial for running experiments in a reproducible manner,
it does not ship with a standard dataset, which makes is less convenient for reusability.
Our benchmark builds on top of the WODSim approach for fragmenting triples into documents,
and also provides more advanced fragmentation strategies.
Furthermore, it ships with a standard dataset for more convenient usage.

Aside from these approaches, evaluation of link traversal engines
is usually done via [hand crafted queries](cite:cites linktraversalsparql, linktraversalcaching, zeroknowldgequeryplanning, sihjoin).

### Analysis of Decentralized Environments

Some Solid papers and Mastodon if I can find any, and if space left.
{:.todo}