content/related-work.md, before:

## Related Work
{:#related-work}

Below, we discuss related work on Link Traversal Query Processing
for Linked Data in the RDF model,
and related benchmarks.

### Link Traversal Query Processing

The Link Traversal Query Processing (LTQP) paradigm was introduced [more than a decade ago](cite:cites linktraversalsparql)
as a way to query over the Web of Linked Data as if it was a globally distributed dataspace,
without having to first index it in a single location.
LTQP does this by employing the [*follow-your-nose* principle of Linked Data](cite:cites linkeddata) during query execution,
where new RDF triples are continuously added to a local dataset while discovering new sources by following links between documents.
An [iterator-based pipeline](cite:cites linktraversalsparql)
allows query execution to take place without having to wait until all links have been followed.

LTQP is thus an [*integrated* approach](cite:cites linkeddatamanagement)
with parallel source discovery and query execution,
in contrast to [*two-phase* approaches](cite:cites summaries, comparingsummaries)
that perform data retrieval and indexing *before* query execution.
As a one-phase approach,
LTQP cannot rely on traditional pre-execution optimization algorithms
that require prior dataset statistics.
A [zero-knowledge query planning technique](cite:cites zeroknowldgequeryplanning)
instead orders triple patterns in a query based on link traversal-specific heuristics.
LTQP is related to the idea of [*SQL-based query execution over the Web*](cite:cites queryingwwwsql, infogatheringwwww3ql)
and to the concept of [*focused crawling*](cite:cites focusedcrawling, focusedcrawlingimproving).
While LTQP considers the Web of Linked Data a large database using the RDF data model,
SQL-based approaches focus on querying attributes or content within Web pages.
Focused crawlers search for Web pages of specific topics to populate a local database or index,
using a two-phase approach where a preprocessing step precedes execution.
While two-phase approaches in general are able to produce better query plans using traditional cardinality-based planning techniques,
waiting for the data retrieval phase to be completed
may be impractical or even impossible for certain queries.

The number of potential links to be followed within the Web of Linked Data can become prohibitively large.
In the worst case, a single query could theoretically require traversing the entire Web.
Therefore, the [formal LTQP model](cite:cites linktraversalfoundations) enables different _reachability criteria_,
which embody strategies for deciding what links to follow, each leading to different result completeness semantics.
*cNone* follows no URLs,
*cAll* follows all URLs in all encountered triple components,
and *cMatch* only follows URLs in triple components for those triples that match a triple pattern within the query.

[_Context-based semantics_](cite:cites linktraversalpropertypaths) is an extension of these reachability semantics
to cope with property path expressions in the [SPARQL 1.1 language](cite:cites spec:sparqllang).
Next to query-driven reachability, [another extension](cite:cites guidedlinktraversal) introduces
the ability for data publishers to express which links should be followed using *subweb specifications*.

Next to filtering links via different semantics,
a second methodology for improving query result arrival times is through [*link prioritization*](cite:cites linktraversaloptimization).
However, existing techniques only sometimes result in faster query results compared to no prioritization.

Even though [multiple query languages](cite:cites ldpath, ldql, nautilod) have been introduced specifically for LTQP,
its [SPARQL-based execution model](cite:cites linktraversalsparql) is still the most widely used.
Since SPARQL is the only language among these that is a standard, and the fact that it is more widely known and supported by different tools,
we make use of it within this work.
Nevertheless, the concepts within this work can be applied to other languages as well.


### Link Traversal Benchmarks

Aside from the lack of reusable link traversal query engines,
there is also a lack of easily reusable benchmarks for evaluation the performance of link traversal query engines.
According to a recent [survey of Linked Data querying approaches](cite:cites linkeddatamanagement),
*"there are no well-defined and well-understood benchmarks to test Linked Data query processing systems"*.
Nevertheless, there has been work that provide a foundation onto which benchmarks may be built.

[QWalk](cite:cites linktraversaldiverse) is a methodology for building a large set of queries based on random walks through an existing dataset.
The output of this methodology is a set of Basic Graph Patterns that crosses through various documents via dereferenceable links.
QWalk has been designed to be executed on the actual Web, to evaluate uncontrolled environments.
Due this this, most of the queries generated by the authors make use of links that have gone dead by now,
which makes these queries unsuitable for a reliable and reusable benchmark.
Furthermore, the authors propose using queries from existing benchmarks
such as [FedBench](cite:cites fedbench) and the [DBpedia SPARQL Benchmark](cite:cites dbpediasparqlbenchmark) for execution over the actual Web.
Unfortunately, these also lead to inconsistent results,
which makes them unsuitable for reliable benchmarking.
In contrast, our benchmark provides a closed environment in full control of the experimenter.

[WODSim](cite:cites linktraversaloptimization) is a tool that accepts an RDF dataset as input,
and is able to simulate a Web of Linked Data documents.
For each triple in the dataset, it can either place the triple inside the Linked Data document(s)
identified by the triple's subject, object, or both.
While this tool is beneficial for running experiments in a reproducible manner,
it does not ship with a standard dataset, which makes is less convenient for reusability.
Our benchmark builds on top of the WODSim approach for fragmenting triples into documents,
but also provides a standard dataset.

Aside from these approaches, evaluation of link traversal engines
is usually done via [hand crafted queries](cite:cites linktraversalsparql, linktraversalcaching, zeroknowldgequeryplanning, sihjoin).

Commit message:

Add related work on security and privacy

content/related-work.md, after:

## Related Work
{:#related-work}

Below, we discuss related work on Link Traversal Query Processing
for Linked Data in the RDF model,
and related benchmarks.

### Link Traversal Query Processing

The Link Traversal Query Processing (LTQP) paradigm was introduced [more than a decade ago](cite:cites linktraversalsparql)
as a way to query over the Web of Linked Data as if it was a globally distributed dataspace,
without having to first index it in a single location.
LTQP does this by employing the [*follow-your-nose* principle of Linked Data](cite:cites linkeddata) during query execution,
where new RDF triples are continuously added to a local dataset while discovering new sources by following links between documents.
An [iterator-based pipeline](cite:cites linktraversalsparql)
allows query execution to take place without having to wait until all links have been followed.
As LTQP engines may traverse over documents from untrusted publishers,
specific [security vulnerabilities](cite:cites ldtraversalsecurity) arise
that do not apply when querying in a controlled environment.

LTQP is thus an [*integrated* approach](cite:cites linkeddatamanagement)
with parallel source discovery and query execution,
in contrast to [*two-phase* approaches](cite:cites summaries, comparingsummaries)
that perform data retrieval and indexing *before* query execution.
As a one-phase approach,
LTQP cannot rely on traditional pre-execution optimization algorithms
that require prior dataset statistics.
A [zero-knowledge query planning technique](cite:cites zeroknowldgequeryplanning)
instead orders triple patterns in a query based on link traversal-specific heuristics.
LTQP is related to the idea of [*SQL-based query execution over the Web*](cite:cites queryingwwwsql, infogatheringwwww3ql)
and to the concept of [*focused crawling*](cite:cites focusedcrawling, focusedcrawlingimproving).
While LTQP considers the Web of Linked Data a large database using the RDF data model,
SQL-based approaches focus on querying attributes or content within Web pages.
Focused crawlers search for Web pages of specific topics to populate a local database or index,
using a two-phase approach where a preprocessing step precedes execution.
While two-phase approaches in general are able to produce better query plans using traditional cardinality-based planning techniques,
waiting for the data retrieval phase to be completed
may be impractical or even impossible for certain queries.

The number of potential links to be followed within the Web of Linked Data can become prohibitively large.
In the worst case, a single query could theoretically require traversing the entire Web.
Therefore, the [formal LTQP model](cite:cites linktraversalfoundations) enables different _reachability criteria_,
which embody strategies for deciding what links to follow, each leading to different result completeness semantics.
*cNone* follows no URLs,
*cAll* follows all URLs in all encountered triple components,
and *cMatch* only follows URLs in triple components for those triples that match a triple pattern within the query.

[_Context-based semantics_](cite:cites linktraversalpropertypaths) is an extension of these reachability semantics
to cope with property path expressions in the [SPARQL 1.1 language](cite:cites spec:sparqllang).
Next to query-driven reachability, [another extension](cite:cites guidedlinktraversal) introduces
the ability for data publishers to express which links should be followed using *subweb specifications*.

Next to filtering links via different semantics,
a second methodology for improving query result arrival times is through [*link prioritization*](cite:cites linktraversaloptimization).
However, existing techniques only sometimes result in faster query results compared to no prioritization.

Even though [multiple query languages](cite:cites ldpath, ldql, nautilod) have been introduced specifically for LTQP,
its [SPARQL-based execution model](cite:cites linktraversalsparql) is still the most widely used.
Since SPARQL is the only language among these that is a standard, and the fact that it is more widely known and supported by different tools,
we make use of it within this work.
Nevertheless, the concepts within this work can be applied to other languages as well.

In general, LTQP has mostly been applied to querying Linked Open Data on the Web.
This is in contrast to our work, where we apply LTQP to specific decentralized environments,
where specific structural properties apply, and not all data is open and accessible to everyone.
[Privacy issues](cite:cites towards_privacy_aggregation) that arise because of the private data in decentralized environments
are considered out of scope for this work.

### Link Traversal Benchmarks

Aside from the lack of reusable link traversal query engines,
there is also a lack of easily reusable benchmarks for evaluation the performance of link traversal query engines.
According to a recent [survey of Linked Data querying approaches](cite:cites linkeddatamanagement),
*"there are no well-defined and well-understood benchmarks to test Linked Data query processing systems"*.
Nevertheless, there has been work that provide a foundation onto which benchmarks may be built.

[QWalk](cite:cites linktraversaldiverse) is a methodology for building a large set of queries based on random walks through an existing dataset.
The output of this methodology is a set of Basic Graph Patterns that crosses through various documents via dereferenceable links.
QWalk has been designed to be executed on the actual Web, to evaluate uncontrolled environments.
Due this this, most of the queries generated by the authors make use of links that have gone dead by now,
which makes these queries unsuitable for a reliable and reusable benchmark.
Furthermore, the authors propose using queries from existing benchmarks
such as [FedBench](cite:cites fedbench) and the [DBpedia SPARQL Benchmark](cite:cites dbpediasparqlbenchmark) for execution over the actual Web.
Unfortunately, these also lead to inconsistent results,
which makes them unsuitable for reliable benchmarking.
In contrast, our benchmark provides a closed environment in full control of the experimenter.

[WODSim](cite:cites linktraversaloptimization) is a tool that accepts an RDF dataset as input,
and is able to simulate a Web of Linked Data documents.
For each triple in the dataset, it can either place the triple inside the Linked Data document(s)
identified by the triple's subject, object, or both.
While this tool is beneficial for running experiments in a reproducible manner,
it does not ship with a standard dataset, which makes is less convenient for reusability.
Our benchmark builds on top of the WODSim approach for fragmenting triples into documents,
but also provides a standard dataset.

Aside from these approaches, evaluation of link traversal engines
is usually done via [hand crafted queries](cite:cites linktraversalsparql, linktraversalcaching, zeroknowldgequeryplanning, sihjoin).
